Update doc for bonita 2022.1 (#2127)
docker-library/docs: bonita/content.md

$ docker run --name bonita -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

> This will start a container running [Bonita runtime](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2022.1/tomcat-bundle): a Tomcat bundle with Bonita Engine + Bonita Portal. With no environment variables specified, it's as if you have launched the bundle on your host using startup.{sh|bat} (with security hardening on REST and HTTP APIs, cf Security part). Bonita uses a H2 database here.

Author: ```suggestion
This will start a container running [Bonita runtime](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/latest/tomcat-bundle): a Tomcat bundle with Bonita Engine + Bonita Portal. With no environment variables specified, it's as if you have launched the bundle on your host using startup.{sh|bat} (with security hardening on REST and HTTP APIs, cf Security part). Bonita uses a H2 database here.
```

You can access the Bonita Portal on http://localhost:8080/bonita and login using the default credentials: install / install

## Link Bonita to a database

The H2 database allows the Bonita container to work out of the box, but it is not recommended outside a development environment.

As PostgreSQL is the recommended database for qualification and production environments, follow one of these next sections to configure your Bonita container to run on PostgreSQL database.
You can work with either a PostgreSQL Container, or PostgreSQL as an installed service.

### PostgreSQL Container

> From Bonita 2022.1 onwards, the Bonita docker image does not include configuration scripts for Postgres

Author: ```suggestion
From Bonita 2022.1 onwards, the Bonita docker image does not include configuration scripts to automatically create databases and users anymore.
```

Therefore the PostgreSQL container needs to be configured to work with Bonita before starting the Bonita container.

> The configuration of a PostgreSQL database to work with Bonita is described in detail in the xref:database-configuration.adoc[database configuration page]. +

Author: ```suggestion
The configuration of a PostgreSQL database to work with Bonita is described in detail in the [database configuration page](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/latest/runtime/database-configuration#postgres_setup). +
```

Alternatively, Bonita provides a preconfigured [PostgreSQL image](https://hub.docker.com/r/bonitasoft/bonita-postgres) on docker-hub. +
You can run the image with the following command:

```

> docker run --name mydbpostgres -h <hostname> -v <your-bonita-license-folder>:/opt/bonita_lic/ -d bonitasoft/bonita-postgres:12.6

Author: ```suggestion
docker run --name mydbpostgres -h <hostname> -d bonitasoft/bonita-postgres:12.6
```

```

This image is built from the following [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Bonitasoft-Community/bonita-database-docker/tree/main/postgres/12), which can be further adapted/customized to suit your needs.

## %%STACK%%

Run `docker stack deploy -c stack.yml %%REPO%%` (or `docker-compose -f stack.yml up`), wait for it to initialize completely, and visit `http://swarm-ip:8080`, `http://localhost:8080`, or `http://host-ip:8080` (as appropriate).

* Replace `<hostname>` with the one used in the licence generation command
* leave double `$$` untouched

> Run `docker-compose up`, wait for it to initialize completely, and visit `+http://localhost:8080+`, or `+http://host-ip:8080+` (as appropriate).

Author: ```suggestion
```
Already mentioned 2 lines above

### PostgreSQL as an installed service

> If you don't want to run your database in a docker container, the following file `env.txt` needs to be configured and provided to the docker run command:

Author: ```suggestion
If you don't want to run your database in a docker container, the following `env.txt` file needs to be configured and provided to the docker run command:
```

```
DB_VENDOR=postgres
DB_HOST=172.17.0.2
DB_PORT=5432
DB_NAME=custombonitadb
DB_USER=custombonitauser
DB_PASS=custombonitapass
BIZ_DB_NAME=custombusinessdb
BIZ_DB_USER=custombusinessuser
BIZ_DB_PASS=custombusinesspass
```

```
docker run --name=bonita -h <hostname> --env-file=env.txt -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

## Start Bonita with custom security credentials

```
docker run --name=bonita -h <hostname> -e "TENANT_LOGIN=tech_user" -e "TENANT_PASSWORD=secret" -e "PLATFORM_LOGIN=pfadmin" -e "PLATFORM_PASSWORD=pfsecret" -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

Now you can access the Bonita Runtime on localhost:8080/bonita and login using: tech_user / secret

## Where data is stored

Bonita uses tomcat that writes file to a working directory and a temp directory.

It can be a good practice to mount the following folders into volumes

* `/opt/bonita/server/temp`
* `/opt/bonita/server/work`

## Environment variables

When you start the bonita image, you can adjust the configuration of the Bonita instance by passing one or more environment variables on the docker run command line.

> ### PLATFORM_PASSWORD

Author: I would put login before password, for PLATFORM, TENANT, like it is for MONITORING.

### HTTP_API
This optional environment variable is used to enable/disable the Bonita HTTP API. The default value is false, which will deactivate the HTTP API.
From Bonita 2022.1, HTTP API is protected with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication[Basic access authentication]. See the following 2 parameters to configure Basic access authentication.

### HTTP_API_USERNAME
This optional environment variable is used to configure the HTTP API Basic access authentication username. The default value is *http-api*.

### HTTP_API_PASSWORD
This optional environment variable is used to configure the HTTP API Basic access authentication password. There is no default value, and providing a value is mandatory if `HTTP_API=true`.

### JMX_REMOTE_ACCESS
This optional environment variable is used to enable/disable the access to the https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/management/using-jconsole.html[JMX console] from a remote machine. +
Default value is *false*. +
The host to connect to is the name / IP address of the bonita server, the port to connect to is 9000. +

> The credentials to connect are the environment variables xref:#MONITORING_USERNAME[MONITORING_USERNAME], xref:#MONITORING_PASSWORD[MONITORING_PASSWORD].

Author: xref: is not valid Markdown ;-)

### REMOTE_IP_VALVE_ENABLED

> This optional environment variable allows to activate/deactivate xref:runtime:reverse-proxy-configuration.adoc[reverse proxy redirection]. Default value is *false*.

Author: xref: is not valid Markdown ;-)

In practice, it is only useful when mounting a volume to the aforementioned directory. Default value is *false*.

### ACCESSLOGS_PATH
If `ACCESSLOGS_FILES_ENABLED=true`, this optional environment variable overrides the default path to of the access log file.
Default value is */opt/bonita/logs*.

### ACCESSLOGS_PATH_APPEND_HOSTNAME
If `ACCESSLOGS_FILES_ENABLED=true`, this optional environment variable allows to append a subdirectory with the *hostname* to the full path of the directory to put access log files into.
Default value is *false*.

### ACCESSLOGS_MAX_DAYS
If `ACCESSLOGS_FILES_ENABLED=true`, this optional environment variable allows to automatically delete access log files after a certain number of days. Default value is *30*.

### HTTP_MAX_THREADS
This optional environment variable allows to specify the maximum Http thread number Tomcat will use to serve HTTP/1.1 requests. Directly modifies the *maxThreads* parameter in the *server.xml* file of the Tomcat inside the docker container.

> More information on the usefulness of this parameter can be found https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-9.0-doc/config/http.html[here]. Default value is *20*.

Author: ```suggestion
More information on the usefulness of this parameter can be found [here](https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-9.0-doc/config/http.html). Default value is *20*.
```

### JAVA_OPTS
This optional environment variable is used to customize JAVA_OPTS. The default value is -Xms1024m -Xmx1024m -XX:MaxPermSize=256m.
The syntax to use is `-e JAVA_OPTS="-Xms2048m -Xmx2048m -XX:MaxPermSize=1024m"`

### DB_VENDOR
This environment variable is automatically set to postgres or mysql if the Bonita container is linked to a PostgreSQL or MySQL database using --link. The default value is h2. It can be overridden if you don't use the --link capability.

### DB_HOST, DB_PORT
These variables are optional, used in conjunction to configure the bonita image to reach the database instance. There are automatically set if --link is used to run the container.

### DB_NAME, DB_USER, DB_PASS

> These variables are used in conjunction to create a new user, set that user's password, and create the bonita database.

Author: ```suggestion
These variables are used in conjunction to define how Bonita should access its database.
```

`DB_NAME` default value is bonitadb.

`DB_USER` default value is bonitauser.

`DB_PASS` default value is bonitapass.

### BIZ_DB_NAME, BIZ_DB_USER, BIZ_DB_PASS

> These variables are used in conjunction to create a new user, set that user's password and create the bonita business database.

Author: ```suggestion

These variables are used in conjunction to define how Bonita should access the [Business Data](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/latest/data/define-and-deploy-the-bdm) database.
```

`BIZ_DB_NAME` default value is businessdb.

`BIZ_DB_USER` default value is businessuser.

`BIZ_DB_PASS` default value is businesspass.

## Logger configuration

> The logger can be configured by mounting a volume on folder `/opt/bonita/conf/logs` containing the configuration files.

Author: ```suggestion
**Since 2022.1**

The logger can be configured by mounting a volume on folder `/opt/bonita/conf/logs` containing the configuration files.
```

the volume must contain the 2 files
[log4j2-loggers.xml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bonitasoft/bonita-distrib/7.14.0/tomcat-resources/tomcat-distrib-for-bonita/src/main/resources/tomcat/server/conf/log4j2-loggers.xml)
and

> [log4j2-appenders.xml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bonitasoft/bonita-distrib/7.14.0/docker/files/log4j2/log4j2-appenders.xml)

Author: ```suggestion
[log4j2-appenders.xml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bonitasoft/bonita-distrib/7.14.0/docker/files/log4j2/log4j2-appenders.xml).

Any change made to one of this 2 files is automatically hot-reloaded and taken into account immediately.
```

## Security

This Docker image activates both static and dynamic authorization checks by default on REST API. To be consistent, it also deactivates the HTTP API.

-	REST API authorization

> 	-	[Static authorization checking](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2022.1/rest-api-authorization#static_authorization)

Author: I would use latest everywhere, this is easier for later maintenance of this page...
```suggestion
	-	[Static authorization checking](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/latest/rest-api-authorization#static_authorization)
```

-	[HTTP API](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2022.1/rest-api-authorization#_activating_and_deactivating_authorization)

For specific needs you can override this behavior by setting HTTP_API to true:

```console

> $ docker run  -e HTTP_API=true --name bonita -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%

Author: Password mandatory:
```suggestion
$ docker run  -e HTTP_API=true -e HTTP_API_PASSWORD="My-Cust0m_S3cR3T" --name bonita -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

```

## Update from an earlier version of 

For updating from a version before 7.10.0, please refere to the documention

-	Stop the container to perform a backup

	```console
	$ docker stop bonita
	```

-	Retrieve the DB container IP

	```console
	$ docker inspect --format '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' mydbpostgres
	172.17.0.26
	```

-	Dump the database

	```console
	$ export PGPASSWORD=mysecretpassword
	$ pg_dump -O -x -h 172.17.0.26 -U postgres bonitadb > /tmp/bonitadb.sql
	```

	Note that businessdb won't be updated with the update tool but you may want to also backup/move it.

> -	Load the dump

Author: Why would someone do that before running the update-tool?

	```console
	$ export PGPASSWORD=mysecretpassword
	$ psql -U postgres -h 172.17.0.26 -d postgres -c "CREATE USER newbonitauser WITH PASSWORD 'newbonitapass';"
	$ psql -U postgres -h 172.17.0.26 -d postgres -c "CREATE DATABASE newbonitadb OWNER newbonitauser;"
	$ export PGPASSWORD=newbonitapass
	$ cat /tmp/bonitadb.sql | psql -U newbonitauser -h 172.17.0.26 newbonitadb
	```

-	Retrieve the last update tool

	```console
	wget https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-platform-releases/releases/download/2022.1-u0/bonita-update-tool-3.0.0.zip
	unzip bonita-update-tool-3.0.0.zip
	```

-	Configure the update tool

	```console
	$ cd bonita-update-tool-3.0.0
	```

> 	edit the update tool config to point towards the copy of bonita home and db

Author: ```suggestion
	edit the update tool configuration file `Config.properties` to point towards the database.
```

	```console
	$ vim Config.properties
	```

	For example :

		db.vendor=postgres
		db.url=jdbc:postgresql://172.17.0.26:5432/newbonitadb
		db.driverClass=org.postgresql.Driver
		db.user=newbonitauser
		db.password=newbonitapass

-	Launch the update tool

	```console
	$ cd bin
	$ ./bonita-update-tool
	```

> -	Launch the new container pointing towards the copy of DB and filesystem

Author: ```suggestion
-	Launch the new container pointing towards the copy of the database.
```

$ docker run --name bonita -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

This will start a container running [Bonita runtime](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/latest/tomcat-bundle): a Tomcat bundle with Bonita Engine + Bonita Portal. With no environment variables specified, it's as if you have launched the bundle on your host using startup.{sh|bat} (with security hardening on REST and HTTP APIs, cf Security part). Bonita uses a H2 database here.

You can access the Bonita Portal on http://localhost:8080/bonita and login using the default credentials: install / install

## Link Bonita to a database

The H2 database allows the Bonita container to work out of the box, but it is not recommended outside a development environment.

As PostgreSQL is the recommended database for qualification and production environments, follow one of these next sections to configure your Bonita container to run on PostgreSQL database.

> You can work with either a PostgreSQL Container, or PostgreSQL as an installed service.

Author: Thx, this is good to know we have this command to run locally 👍🏽 !

Therefore the PostgreSQL container needs to be configured to work with Bonita before starting the Bonita container.
The configuration of a PostgreSQL database to work with Bonita is described in details in the [database configuration page](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/latest/runtime/database-configuration#postgres_setup). +
Alternatively, Bonita provides a preconfigured [PostgreSQL image](https://hub.docker.com/r/bonitasoft/bonita-postgres) on docker-hub. +
You can run the image with the following command:

```
docker run --name mydbpostgres -h <hostname> -d bonitasoft/bonita-postgres:12.6
```

This image is built from the following [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Bonitasoft-Community/bonita-database-docker/tree/main/postgres/12), which can be further adapted/customized to suit your needs.

## %%STACK%%

Run `docker stack deploy -c stack.yml %%REPO%%` (or `docker-compose -f stack.yml up`), wait for it to initialize completely, and visit `http://swarm-ip:8080`, `http://localhost:8080`, or `http://host-ip:8080` (as appropriate).

* Replace `<hostname>` with the one used in the licence generation command

> * leave double `$$` untouched

Author: Good to know. Thx.
